{% capture brief %}
The *Normal Track* is for you if you've never written a program before or consider yourself totally new to programming.  You will focus first on introductory programming to build a foundation, then jump into web applications with Rails.
{% endcapture %}
{% capture full %}
In this three month instructor-led course you'll learn the technical skills you need to build and launch a web application to power your startup business.

h5. What's Included

* Three 2-day in-person sessions
* Five online sessions
* Projects and assignments to practice your skills
* Individual meeting/advisory session to discuss technical needs of your business
* Access to an online community for questions and collaboration

h5. Pricing

We know what it's like to bootstrap!  We've designed an awesome program and you won't find anything like it out there, but it has to be affordable.  Combining in-person and online sessions, all in small groups no larger than 14 people, you'll pay *less than $40/hour*.

Here's the breakdown:
* $1975 per single attendee
* $1600 per attendee for the first six signups,  groups of 2 or more, and current students

h4. Level of Difficulty - Normal Track

You've never written a program before or consider yourself totally new to programming.  You will focus first on introductory programming to build a foundation, then jump into web applications with Rails.

h4. Calendar - Normal Track

Exact dates for this course are still pending, but here is the general idea:

* In-Person Session 1: 2 Days All Day
* Online Session 1: 3 Hours
* Online Session 2: 3 Hours
* In-Person Session 2: 2 Days All Day
* Online Session 3: 3 Hours
* Online Session 4: 3 Hours
* In-Person Session 3: 2 Days All Day
* Online Session 5: 3 Hours

That's a total of over *50 hours* of small group instructor training plus a one-on-one session and the online community!

h4. Content Details - Normal Track

This track is designed for persons new to programming.  It will be a quick ramp up, but the foundation in general programming will provide huge benefits down the road.

h5. Introduction to Programming with Ruby:<span class='details'> In-Person Session 1, Online Sessions 1 & 2</span>

* What is Ruby?
* Introduction to Object Oriented Programming
* Writing instructions, methods, classes, and programs
* Using libraries to stand on the shoulders of giants
* How to get help when you're stuck

h5. The Basics of Rails Applications:<span class='details'>In-Person Session 2, Online Sessions 3 & 4</span>

* How web applications work
* Tour a Rails Application
* Creating your first web app
* Working with a database
* Building effective user interfaces

h5. Running a Rails Project and Application:<span class='details'>In-Person Session 3, Online Session 5</span>

* Managing source code with git
* Deploying a Rails application
* Authentication and authorization
* Handling Payments
* Tools for monitoring and maintenance

h4. Questions? Comments?

Email us at "startuprails@jumpstartlab.com":mailto:startuponrails@jumpstartlab.com or on Twitter at "@jumpstartlab":http://twitter.com/#!/jumpstartlab
{% endcapture %}
